Windows Download and installation
Follow the download link provided to get the installation files
Run the downloaded file (Windows11Installer.exe) to start the Windows 11 Installation Assistant.

VISUAL CODE STUDIO INSTALLATION
Visit the official Visual Studio Code website: Download Visual Studio Code.
Depending on your operating system, download the appropriate installer (.exe for Windows, 
Once downloaded, run the installer file (VSCodeSetup.exe for Windows).
Follow the installation wizard instructions:
Select the installation location (default is usually C:\Program Files\Microsoft VS Code on Windows).
Choose additional tasks like adding VS Code to the PATH or creating desktop shortcuts if desired.
Complete the installation by clicking "Install" or "Next" and then "Finish".
open the Vscode to install extensions

Set Up Version Control System
Steps for Installing Git,
 Creating a GitHub Account,
 Creating a Repository,
 and Making the First Commit:
 Installing
 Git:
   - Download Git from the official site: [Git Download](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
   - Run the installer and follow the setup instructions, choosing your preferred options for PATH, line endings, and other settings.
CREATION OF A GITHUB ACCOUNT open your web browser and go to the GitHub homepage: GitHub.
Sign Up:Click on the Sign up button located in the upper-right corner of the page.
Enter Your Details:
Username: Choose a unique username. This will be your public handle on GitHub.
Email Address: Enter a valid email address that you can access
Password: Choose a strong password. Make sure it is at least 15 characters long or at least 8 characters long with a mix of letters, numbers, and symbols.
Click on the Create account button.

Install Necessary Programming Languages and Runtimes
Visit the official Python website: Download Python.
Click on the download button for the latest Python release.
Run the downloaded installer (python-<version>.exe for Windows).
Ensure you check the box "Add Python to PATH" before clicking "Install Now".
Follow the installation prompts to complete the installation.
Verify the installation by opening a command prompt and typing python --version

Install Package Managers
Install Pip is included with Python installation from Python 3.4 and above. To ensure pip is installed and updated:
Open a command prompt.
Run the following command to upgrade pip:
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
Verify the installation by typing:pip --version

Configure a Database (MySQL)
Download and install the MySQL database.
Visit the official MySQL website: Download MySQL Installer.
Download the MySQL Installer (mysql-installer-community-<version>.msi).
Run the installer and choose the setup type (typically "Developer Default" or "Server Only").
Follow the installation wizard:
Configure the MySQL server (e.g., set a root password, configure networking options).
Complete the installation process.
Open MySQL Workbench to verify and manage your MySQL server

Set Up Development Environments and Virtualization
Use virtualization tools like Docker or virtual machines for isolated project environments.
Steps (for Docker):
Visit the official Docker website: Download Docker.
Download and run the Docker Desktop installer for your operating system.
Follow the installation prompts to complete the installation.
Open Docker Desktop to ensure it is running.

Explore Extensions and Plugins:
Open Visual Studio Code.
Click on the Extensions icon in the Activity Bar on the side of the window or press Ctrl+Shift+X.
Search for extensions that match your needs (e.g., Python, GitLens, Prettier).
Click "Install" to add the desired extensions.
Configure the extensions as needed by following their specific setup instructions.

